Dear fellow practitioners, I'm just giving
a small example of this experience
for you all. Yesterday, you
witnessed the evening practice.
Now, I'm reminding you that not everyone is
skillful enough to see their own karma and
think about their actions,
because the ego is very big. Once an
action is driven by the ego, it
will have its consequences, and
this ego will drag it along with it. I'll
just give one example, one word. If you're
not mindful, you'll die because of
that word. For example, yesterday, I asked you, and
I just said this:
when a thought arises, "Why do
n't I go to the land like the monks,
like I haven't even ascended yet?" Just a question. If
no one corrects you, if
no one reminds you, I guarantee that if you practice
diligently until you reach the level of Devadatta, you will become the embodiment of Devadatta. To become the
embodiment of Devadatta
through practice without a solid foundation of knowledge is
extremely difficult, fellow practitioners.
The saying is, "Like the monks who have attained enlightenment."  That's
not allowed, fellow practitioners. For
example, if I'm on equal footing with my teacher, that's
absolutely true. I would never say that to my esteemed fellow practitioners. They would never
be reborn in my heart. If I
demand to be like the person above me, then
such a person will never be equal to the person
above me. That's all I need to
say, not to mention that in Vogue,
I'm also the best, not intentionally. And
those who intentionally
try to imitate those above them, and then
follow suit, and when they see those above being
praised, they also follow suit to be praised below, then
that person will sink
completely. That's a bird, fellow
practitioners. And getting out of that situation is
extremely difficult because once you've signed the contract, you've been
flattered, you've been flattered,
people call it having
food, the ego has had food, fellow
practitioners. That means every day you have to do
something so that someone praises you, so that
someone else praises you, that you become equal to the person
they are praising.
That's daily food that nourishes the ego.
That person is extremely difficult to get off track,
you see? Their thinking is
very meticulous, you see. That's why
when Yen talks to you,
she says she can help you
because, since
childhood, she never
had the thought that she had to surpass others. She
usually thought of learning, that is, learning something and
hoping to
accomplish it herself.
Then, when it comes to Buddhism, Yen
will
give specific examples for you. For example,
in the story we read about the monk who
was threatened with being reborn as a dog for 500 lifetimes, you see? Do you
remember?
Because this monk thought his chanting was
good, so he became attached
to his chanting voice many times. He became
arrogant,
clinging
to his own quality, thinking he was
good, and then he became
proud.
This path of the mind always goes like that.  There is a
spiritual path, my friend. Perhaps you are
proud of what you have achieved, joyful about
what you have achieved,
and contempt for what you have achieved. From
now on, your eyes are blinded. There is a spiritual path, my
friend. I have a good chanting voice, but I still have countless things that are incomplete. There is a spiritual path, my friend. But I only see that I chant well, what else do I do? Well, let's move on. If I am arrogant and want to be
better than others, then the very mind that keeps letting go of the
thought of being better than others is
what will cause me to sink, right, my dear friend?
Yes, that's right, that's what will cause me to
sink. Let me explain that point in detail. Do you
understand, my dear friends? Even
Devadatta, it was
precisely because of that thought that he fell here, my
dear friends. He saw that
when he displayed his supernatural powers, he also
displayed supernatural powers
in the position of wisdom. How could he
know the wisdom of the Buddha? Remember,
Arhats don't know the
wisdom of the Buddha. The Buddha is unique.  Awakened beings may
not know the wisdom of a fully
enlightened Buddha, but there are
similarities in the cessation of defilements. We think and
observe these similarities; we are
similar to someone else in some way. Don't be
arrogant. Only when we can fully examine
others, see their
karmic patterns,
can we be sure that we can approach them and understand their feelings.
Returning to another sutra, there is the sutra of the
laywoman who supported 500
monks practicing in the forest for three months. During the rainy season,
she offered food to the monks.
The monks taught her the practice,
but due to her own efforts in practice, she... You
are a... when you attain the Anagami stage,
you see that none of your teachers have attained the stage yet. Yen,
stop here to
remind the fellow practitioners: remember this: to be equal to
others, one must observe
others in a mind free from defilement. That is, we are currently in
ignorance and delusion. The fellow practitioners, through their
own perception, see that there is a way for them to see. Do you
understand this point, Yen?  I say this so that
we don't fall into mistakes when
practicing. We are all
leaders, and sometimes we forget, my fellow practitioners. We
forget to think about
things. We listen to the Dharma, remember it, and then tell
people a few things. We
manage people, but we forget
our own practice. We forget the atmosphere of
creating a friendly environment.
Lao people are usually alert
and able to think clearly about all concepts,
whether they are suffering or not, and what the results are,
how things unfold. But we haven't yet
reached that level. If you, Nha, were to do that, you would
n't know anything at all, my fellow practitioners.
Therefore, the issue is that we shouldn't say
we will be like anyone else. We should learn from
what we see, and follow whoever is good.
With the heart of a disciple,
someone who knows how to look at themselves to practice and be
vigilant, we shouldn't learn
what is called "learning by imitation" or "
following others" like some fellow
practitioners do. Learning by imitation is not about
imitation, but about learning.  To follow the Buddha means
we learn to become Buddhas. My
dear fellow practitioners, please understand this point. Those who haven't
learned to imitate others don't look at their own minds
but at appearances, always
wanting to achieve that appearance.
But those who learn to follow the Buddha always strive to
achieve their own minds. These are two
opposites. My dear fellow practitioners, you see, I'll
briefly explain
the dangers in our behavior.
Haha, I'm sure the first Buddhist teaching is about the
Sangha.
Yes, because we always see that no matter
how skilled we are, we still lack a certain karmic connection to
the world; we can't
break free from it. Even if Buddhists
spend three days here with bleeding feet,
the goal of those Buddhists is to see
where they go after three days. Is it as good as it seems?
Yes, the
beautiful thought that comes to mind is already
a big issue, isn't it? People who are
respectful will be able to think that way.
But if someone is not respectful, they
won't be able to think that way. Remember,
respect will give rise to
these kinds of thoughts. The correct Dharma is to be respectful and think that way.
The Dharma is grateful for the thinking that led to
this correct practice. The root of it all lies in the virtue of the
Dharma, my friend. Never think, "
I can do this," but remember, "
What virtue does this work in accordance with?" From what virtue does this arise? That
's what
we, as Buddhist disciples, must learn.
Otherwise, we're only learning the superficial aspects, my friend. If we
abandon the root of cultivation
and forget that the root is the mind, then even if we cultivate for countless
lifetimes, it will all be wasted. We're
only imitating the form, my dear
friend, right?
[Applause]
[Music]
I bought a copy of the book by Shakyamuni Buddha. I registered
with the teacher. During
this afternoon's practice, I saw
someone walking barefoot. I had a
thought, but why don't I walk barefoot
to be like the wise monk practicing,
resting, then returning, depending on circumstances?
The teacher today only taught to
walk and focus on the steps. I started
thinking, should I lower my
foot first or lower both feet
first? I just keep focusing there. So, teacher, I'm
thinking like that, and I ask the teacher to
teach me what is right.  All that thinking,
Long, is just a delusion,
not even considering right
or wrong, yet it's completely outside the main topic. That means
we've been thrown off course, and we're still following this...
Remember this point: all
thinking, whether good or bad,
that's outside the main topic is still a thrown-off, get
out of there, okay?
[Music] [Applause] [
Music]
[Applause]
[Music]